From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes.
Oh, weekly discussion with web
developer and technologists. Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number two 58. Recorded live
Wednesday, March 23rd, 2011. Support for Hanselman
it's. This provided by Tellerik
Brady controls. The most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms, P.net web applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com.
In this episode, Scott gets
the latest on entity framework
with Jeff  and Tom
Laverty. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman, and this is another
episode of Hansel minutes. And
today I'm talking with Jeff
, who is the devil
lead on entity framework? 4.1
and the guy who makes
coffee for him, Tim Laverty
who is the lead PM.
How's it going guys? Great.
Good. Hi Scott. Have you
had your coffee made by
your boss today? Jeff. And
he actually made me hot
chocolate this morning. That was
pretty cool. Nice. Okay. So
you guys, you guys work
on the team that makes
the entity framework and the
entity framework is, is I
think, is, is it fair
to say it's the way
that we, the recommended way
to do data access in,
in dotnet today? Yep, absolutely.
That's the way we see
it too. If you're doing
data access and.net, you should
be using the entity framework.
Now a couple years ago,
I would say maybe like
two or three years ago,
there were maybe more options
and some of these options
still exist. Like for example,
LinkedIn SQL is still out
there. It's not being actively
worked on, but it's, it's
shipped, you know, it's supported
it's there. And then there's
ado.net kind of classic record
sets and data sets and
data readers and things like
that. And then entity framework,
w how did it, how
did it shake out that
entity framework is the recommended
way and why were there
so many ways before? So
this is Tim. I would
say that well for one,
the first thing I start
with is Jeff and my
team, we own LinkedIn SQL,
and I think really how
it shakes out is we
still see a world where
you would use core radio.net.
If you're looking at very,
very tight control of SQL
statements that execute against your
database, then we oftentimes will
push people down to Cory
deo.net with LinkedIn SQL. Really,
it was a matter of
us looking at the EDM
vision and looking at the
mapping capabilities CF offered and
sort of a balance of
which of these are we
going to bet on and
add to, or add, add
a large feature set to
going forward. And we felt
like that ETF had a
better path in terms of
where we wanted to go
with data, access and modeling,
and what was the more
effective and cheaper solution Microsoft.
And you said, EDM vision,
what is EDM? So EDM
is the entity data model.
And it's a, basically a
way that are a, a,
a standard that you can
design your entities and relationships
between those entities and offers
a good way of mapping
those two relational schemas. Okay.
So then everything that you're
doing in the entity framework,
whether it's from an entity,
a model that's done in
a visual designer, or whether
it's done in code, it's
all, there's an underlying EDM
and indeed data model, is
that right? Yeah, there is.
And what it allows us
to do is, is I
can create a, I'll build
an eff and I'll get
an entity data model underneath
that because it's a entity
data model that makes it
really, really easy for me
to use other services. For
example, I can build or
very easily build an old
data service on top of
that because the F model
is EDM based and what
we picture is going forward,
we we'll add other services
across Microsoft that are IOM
based as well, so that
you can build this EDM
model and get a first
class RM through EDF, get
a data service very easily
and et cetera. Yeah. So
this is Jeff, just to
add onto that. So what
this means is, you know,
anybody who's using code first
or using the designer to
build a data access stack
with the entity framework today,
you know, down the road,
they'll be able to leverage
that existing work that they've
done to build that model,
whether they've built the model
using code, or, you know,
with the drag and drop
stuff, and the designer you'll
be able to do reporting
over that analytics, all kinds
of cool services for free.
I see. So it's not
like it's, it's not three
different things, like three different,
totally different code paths. I
mean, model first database first
and in code first, they
all sit on top of
the core entity framework thing.
It's not like three separate.
Yep. That's right. If you
look at inside visual studio,
the designer produces these XML
format and EDM X, and
you can open that file
up and see all the
XML. And that kind of
represents this EDM model. Now
that EDS, that XML then
gets interpreted by the entity
framework. And we use that
as kind of our internal
model. Now, what code first
does is it basically generates
the equivalent of that XML,
but it does it at
runtime. So no matter what
you're using, same code path,
same kind of model. Okay.
So the XML is just
a serialized form that represents
what you want to do
it in memory. It's some
kind of, of an object
model that represents your entity
model. No, that's right. Like
XML, I guess I'm just
saying is X the XML
file is an artifact of
the larger and memory model,
right. It's not a based
on XML or anything. Right.
Exactly. You can think of
it as it's serializing that
EDM model out to XML.
Okay. Now a couple of
years ago, though, when were
these choices? The, the original
entity framework? I think it
did come out in, in,
in, in Dutton at three,
five or . So some
people really embraced it and
there were some cool books
and stuff like by Julie,
Julie Lerman, but amongst folks
that were already using features
like open source projects, rather
like an hibernate, there was
a lack of confidence in
entity framework. And there were
some initial features that they
didn't feel that it had,
what did they not? What
did the, the, the public
like, and not like about
three, five, and what is
different in 4.1? I think
what the public liked about
three five was really that
you could do some of
the modeling that wasn't possible
with some of these other
technologies. So you could do,
you know, different kinds of
inheritance mappings, you know, different
kinds of like splitting tables
or joining tables together to
represent entities in a very
kind of seamless way, the
original version of entity framework.
We also made a really
big investment in the designer
experience so that, you know,
tools like and hibernate, you
know, which is, which is
a great tool, has tons
of functionality, but it didn't
at that time have the
designer support that was in,
in visual studio. And so
that was kind of an
advantage of using the entity
framework linked to sequel. On
the other hand, had the
advantage of simplicity. It went
to one backend SQL server,
family of technologies had a
really simple programming experience and
really just hit that. Like
I'm a developer writing code
and I'm trying to get,
you know, an Oren based
data access stack up and
running and linked to sequel
offered the fastest path to
do that over the entity
framework. It also offered, you
know, a form of what
we call poco support. So
you could write your classes
and they would not have
any dependency on that data
access stack. And that was
something I did that first
version of entity framework didn't
have. And I think that
was one of the most
significant feature gaps between entity
framework and the other solutions
that really kind of held
it back. And so when
we released the second version
of the entity framework and.net
for O we added the
poco support back, well, we
added support for support for
the first time. And then
coupled with the designer support
really made a really nice
solution for people. For, for
me when entity framework three,
five came out, I was
kind of a hardcore link
to SQL person, and I
would use linked to SQL
and all my demos. And
I would just link to
SQL felt faster. It felt
like it, the designer was
faster and it felt like
it started up faster in
three, five and in four.
Oh, it seemed like I
could pretty much do everything
I did with linked to
SQL in, in four. Oh.
And I can't really tell
a difference between the designer
and the startup. It felt
like it started up slowly
in three five. Is that
just in my mind, did
I get a faster machine
or was there something done
between three, five and four
to get that kind of
out of the box? You
know, I was like file
new model, boom, boom, boom.
Hit at five and I'm
running. I mean, it felt
more S more, I don't
know, crisp, I guess. I
mean, we definitely between three,
five and four. Oh, that
was kind of when we
started making that transition to
investing, you know, primarily in
the entity framework. So, you
know, we, we did do,
you know, work on, on
that experience of, you know,
I want to get started
using entity framework and I
want it to be fast
and, you know, as well
as feature rich. And so
it's likely that, you know,
you're seeing some of those,
those improvements that we made
there, whereas we didn't make
improvements to, you know, SQL
metal and the, the link
to SQL designer. But I
think also like, you know,
the, the other thing that
people liked about linked to
sequel was you said it
kind of like felt faster
and stuff like that. I
think even like the development
workflow felt faster with linked
to SQL because the concepts
that you were using or
a lot simpler, there were
a lot fewer of them.
You didn't have this, this
extra layer of, of mapping
and modeling in there. You
could use attributes on your
classes and things like that.
So there, there definitely was
a, a simpler feel to
link to SQL, even though
it kind of seemed like
it could do similar things
in a lot of cases.
But the truth of the
matter is that the entity
framework, you know, definitely offers
more in terms of object,
relational mapping technology, and the
different layers that are in
the entity framework is a,
is a much more robust,
richer experience or a piece
of technology. And, and so
that's where, when we started
working on , we said,
well, one of the things
people liked about these other
technologies is they're simple and
few concepts. So let's target
that kind of experience. When
we start thinking about the
next versions of the entity
framework, The only other thing
I was going to say,
that we do with
every release we set aside,
or we block off specific
time to look at perf
in terms of our startup
also in terms of the
SQL that we generate, that
we execute into database both.
And we definitely did that
with the  plan to
do it going forward. One
of the things that, that
I've found that, that, because
it's, so, COVID so simple,
I ended up using entity
framework like I did with
LinkedIn SQL in a one
to one relationship. So, you
know, my, when I do
database first where I designed
my database, and then I
drag my tables in and
automatically get my model, or
if I do code first,
I'm finding that my model
to database kind of mapping
is one to one. And
I'm, I'm one, I mean,
I'm feeling a little bit
guilty about that. I'm wondering
if I'm really only scratching
the surface of what's possible.
And usually it's because of
a confusion, maybe perhaps on
my part about if I
let's say I have like
a customer model, but the
customer model actually has two
or three tables, customer, customer
info customer address. I'm not
really clear how that, how
that mapping works from an
insert perspective. Like I can
visualize from a reading perspective
that I've got this customer
object and I'm going to
go and get, and the
entity framework will go and
map how these three tables
are in fact one object.
And that's nice, but on
the insert, how does it
know and how do I
write code to have one
customer object fan out to
multiple tables? I think that's
a question a lot of
people have. So it probably
depends on this is really
about initial model creation. If
I want to have one
entity or one class that's
mapping to multiple tables, then
when you create your model,
you specify to ETF what
properties map to what specific
columns and what specific tables.
And in terms of generation
of cut statements or generation
of read statements, you're basically
using the same logic like
EIF is looking at that
entity. It's looking at its
mapping layer and saying, okay,
well, how do the properties
in this entity map to
which tables in which columns
in those tables and it's
generating the crud statements based
off of that. And it
has the intelligence to walk
through what the dependencies are
and so on, so that
it executes the statements in
terms of order. So I
guess what I'm after is,
is like the, the bonus
with ETF is that you
can actually create that kind
of mapping. If you want
to take those three tables
and map them to a
single entity where with some
of the other technologies you
can, As I've presented ETF
entity framework related talks at
small user groups and stuff
that some of the database
folks out there are uncomfortable.
The, you know, the, these,
these database guys that kind
of grew up in that
space. You know, when, when
I was programming in the,
in the early and mid
nineties and doing stuff on
like SQL four to one,
it was a very clear
delineation between the three tiers
and the three job titles,
right. There was like old
database guy with a beard
or, or lady with a
beard. There was, there was
like UI guy who was
the button dragger. That was
me. And then there was
the, I don't know how
to do the UI guy.
And he wrote the services
in the middle of the
common objects in the middle
and the database guy, you
know, his, his job security
was based on, you know,
he knew everything. There was
no other database. He added
a special index columns and
he wrote custom Sprockets and
everything like that. And then
I hear now that, you
know, maybe that guy's not
needed, do you, what do
you, where do you think
those roles evolve to? Should
the database guys start learning
eff and move, move up
or should the coder move
down into the database? Huh?
It's this is funny. So
I have a, I have
a year for DBA talk
in Orlando next week that
I'm doing. So I've been
thinking a lot about this.
And I, I come from
a, I was the, well,
I didn't have a beard,
but I was a database
guy before coming to Microsoft.
So we don't, we, we
actually don't see the database
guy becoming irrelevant if you
will. EOF works great in
DVA centric Workflow as well.
Like it works well with
store procedures. It works well
with views. If you're in
a shop where you're store
procedure oriented, and you want
that abstraction layer, you want
to have a buffer from
the developer in terms of
to set, to handle security,
or you want to specifically
tune queries. Then we definitely
recommend that you continue to
use stored proxy, right? Your
stored procs in those specific
cases, or you write your
views and they'll map through
EOF just fine. So we,
we, I guess we think
of it as EMF works
well for your shop. And
it's sort of independent of
what your shop workflow is
like. It it'll basically be
able to click in and
offer you benefit whether you're
a, where you have very
segmented roles, the database guy
with the beard, your military,
and your front end guy,
or whether you're a guy
that wraps all of that
up. Hi, this is Scott
coming to you from another
place in time. Are you
using agile practices to manage
your software development? There's lots
of tools in the market
that manage the steps of
a project, but most of
them focus on individual roles,
get ready for a solution
that caters for the success
of the whole team. Guys
at Tellerik introduced team pulse
to an agile project management
tool. That'll help you gather
ideas, estimate plan, track progress
in a common workspace. Finally,
companies, regardless of their size
can use a lightweight and
convenient tool that makes all
the stakeholders work as a
United team. Even if they're
in different countries by combining
intuitive user interface and the
power server light team poles
removes the roadblocks that you
typically face and applying agile
in an effective manner, no
more lost data, no disparate
systems, no lack of critical
analytics regarding the health philosophy
project. See if yourself, you
get a free copy for
five users in one project
at tellerik.com/team pulse. And please
do thank Tellerik for supporting
Hansel minutes on their Facebook
fan page, facebook.com/t L E
R I K Keller. We
do appreciate it. It wouldn't
be a Hansel minutes if
there wasn't, Tellerik helping us.
Yeah, I guess that when
I think about the database
guy with the beard and
again, or gal in an
enterprise, it seems like the
bigger the company, the more
likely there is to have
a dedicated person that does
that. And I've heard from
the community, from the public
kind of these, these two
conflicting statements. One is that
entity framework is only for
big enterprises and that's one
statement. And then the conflicting
one is no, no we're
way too big for entity
framework. You know, our database
is so big or it's
so important or work. Our
company is so big that,
you know, we can't use
it because we have a
good Jillian tables and all
custom, you know, customs, Brocks,
how do we, how do
I reconcile those? I, I
think the way that you
reconcile them is they're both
not true. So entity framework
can be used for, you
know, if you're not an
enterprise you're just getting started
with a Greenfield. You want
to build a model using
code or with the designer,
have us generate a database
for you, just so you
can start writing your actual
application. And there's no that
entity framework is going to
help facilitate getting all your
data stored in a database
for you. So we work
kind of on that end
of things. And on the
enterprise side, you know, we,
we do scale up to,
to, to fairly large models
and we have the flexibility
to do complex mappings that
you often see and shops
that have, you know, pretty
large complicated database schemas. And
that's where kind of some
of that extra power and
flexibility of the entity frameworks
mapping comes into play. I
think we have, you know,
we have definitely have like,
you know, release after release.
We're getting better on our
SQL generation. And from what
I've seen about, you know,
DBA is being like the
gatekeeper of no SQL shall
enter, you know, my database,
you know, without my express
written, you know, TPH report
kind of thing. You know,
I think in those cases
I've seen the developers be
like, all right, well, I've
used any framework. Here's some
of the SQL at generates.
They show it to the
DBA and the DBA is
like, Hey, this isn't bad.
This is, this is pretty
good sequel on, you know,
in fact it's probably just
as good as, you know,
a person could write, you
know, in a reasonable amount
of time and, you know,
entity framework even offers the
ability. You know, if you
don't like the SQL that's
generated for a link statement,
you could always kind of
have the option of dropping
down and having entity framework
execute your own SQL for
you. So in that regard,
you know, entity framework is,
is pretty well used in
enterprise scenarios and by enterprise
customers. One of the things
that I've heard as a
negative about entity framework is
that it's unclear how to
do things like caching and,
you know, second level caching.
I've heard that, that as
it relates to an hibernate,
which has kind of caching
baked in, is that, I
mean, what do you, what
do you think about that?
No, that's good criticism. I
mean, we still have, we
still have a number of
features that are on our
backlog, that aren't in the
product yet. We don't have
a first class, second level
cash, or like a caching
provider model. We'd look at,
we look at it and
hibernates and admire it, something
that we want to build
and plan to have in
a, in a future release
for sure. Tim, when people
say, why doesn't Microsoft just
use this existing open source
project. And I don't mean
that just in the context
of entity framework, but kind
of anything that we do.
Why do we, as a
company, you know, build something
versus, you know, pick something
in the, in the community.
I know that sometimes we,
we, sometimes we do in
the case of like jQuery
and jQuery UI on the,
on the website, but how,
how are those decisions decisions
made, but let's, you know,
build versus buy or build
versus support in the, in
the, in the community. All
Right. I think that it,
it varies on from technology
to technology, that it depends
on licensing and how much
IP we have in the
space already and how much
we want, how much, how
much we want to innovate
there. Like, do we think
that we could build something
that's significantly better than what's
there? And so, And entity
framework is going to be,
I mean, supported for forever
in sense of this is
the, this is the way
we're doing things going forward.
So you're gonna, you're planning
on moving forward and, you
know, F 4.1 just came
out and there'll be like
a five and a six.
We're not going to switch
database models. Again, We have
absolutely no plans to switch
database models or switch data
access. API is, again, we
have a funny, funny acronym
called Jada yet another data
access layer. We don't plan
on having a fully different
data access layer. ETF should
be it. I mean, with
EMF, it's, it's a, it's
just, it's a strategic bet
for Microsoft. It's based off
of the EDM model, we're
building a number of services
on top of it, you
know, ETFs, your RM, you
have data services or data
built on top of it.
We plan on shipping others
as well. And you guys,
when, when you're supportive of
people using whatever they like,
right? I mean, entity framework
uses ado.net underneath and hibernate
will end up using, you
know, going direct to SQL
depending on what providers they're
using underneath. Do you, do
you, do you care? I
mean, ultimately we're trying to
sell windows. So does it
matter to you whether someone
uses ETF versus, and hibernate
versus whatever LLB, Elgin? I
mean, not, not particularly like
I it's a, it is
the dotnet ecosystem and that's,
that's what we're about. I
mean, what we have ETF,
because we think that it,
it's a, it's a great
RM and it feeds this
EDM ecosystem nicely and makes
it really easy for you
to build a data services
and other services on top
of it. It's got great
vs integration and so on.
We've got a lot of
chips on it. We're betting
a lot on it, but
yeah, I mean, in reality,
it's like we're, we're here
to enhance and build on
the EDM ecosystem or sorry,
on the.net ecosystem. And you
know, these, these other technologies
are great as well. So
in, in 4.1, is it
correct to say that IA
4.0 ship with Dutton at
four, but EFI 4.1 is
its own thing. It's an
add on, does it, is
it a replacement or does
it sit on top of
the, the stuff that shipped
and FORO, It is an
add on, on top. So
yeah, four Oh one is
our first out of box
release. It's the first time
we've shipped outside of the.net
framework, which we're super excited
about. Cause it we're our
thinking is it's gonna allow
us to iterate quicker. So
we've got a huge backlog
of ass. You referenced second
level cash, just one earlier.
And what we feel like
is that what this is
going to let us do
is going to let us
iterate and ship out of
box on a more consistent
rapid cadence. Yeah. Four, one
doesn't replace EFI for it's
a layer on top of
it. It adds code first
and the DB context, API
surface, will you guys influenced
by the asp.net team and
NBC shipping out of band
or was it, you know,
like I kind of felt
like at Microsoft, the culture,
wasn't really supportive of doing
things, as we say, out
of band, meaning wait, doing
things now and shipping things
now, as opposed to waiting
for the next version of
visual studio. And I feel
like, you know, the guys
on the NBC team really
started, I don't know, innovating
in the sense of we
can do something. We don't
have to wait for you
visual studio, or does that
something that kind of was
invented on both sides? No,
I, I think that they
were definitely a model for
us and you know, exactly
around like, Hey, we want
to be able to ship
more frequently, get the features
to the customers more, you
know, as quick as we
can, we're all goals of
ours. And we saw what
they were doing and said,
Hey, we should do that
too. You know, to give
the MVC and, you know,
asp.net team credit and, and
you, Scott, you know, we,
we got a lot of
feedback from them, not just
about how to ship the
bits, but about the content
of the bits and the
functionality. So we actually PR
you know, think of our
relationship with MVC and ASP
down at, as a, a
pretty successful one in terms
of getting out, you know,
a pretty good product that
people seem to be pretty
happy with. Yeah. I mean,
I'd just add to that.
We've got a good tight
partnership with the ASP net
guys. Like they, you know,
they like, they look at
our code, they critique us.
They've brought a lot of
new ideas to us saying,
Hey, we think you guys
should do this. Or like,
they've looked at our stuff
and given us a fair
bit of feedback and criticism
about making it simpler, making
it easier. And certainly from
a ship perspective, we've learned
a lot from them. And
they're, they're, they're a good
model for us of what
we're doing things a little
bit different than they are
naturally, but they've been a
good model for us to
learn from, you know, shipping
stuff out of band and
on a quicker cadence. So,
yeah. Yeah. I actually, whenever
we ship a new, like
CTP of, especially the code,
first stuff I always look
forward to in the next
couple of days, getting a
mail from you, Scott or
David Ebo, or Phil hack
about, you know, why the
heck did you do it
this way? You know, this
is ridiculous. Like you got
to change this. So that
always kind of gives me
a little smile and I
get good feedback from you
guys. And I call it
the mocking feedback. Cause you
like to make fun of
the silly choices we make
in our CGPs. It's so
funny that micro Microsoft people,
I don't know if it's
like a Microsoft culture thing
or if, if we're like
trained or maybe it's the
Koolaid to take our, take
our criticism, like, please, sir,
can I have another, you
know, it's just like you
suck. Why don't you DB
DB database? What kind of,
what kind of freakish class
name is that you guys
are smoking over there? Oh,
thanks. I'll take that. Ask
to the team. I'm super
excited about your feedback, you
know, exactly. Take, take your
licks and keep going. Right.
When the, when, when I
think it was CTP for
CDB five came out, it
was like, I mean, it
wasn't literally, it was like
Microsoft database access, entity framework,
community technology preview for whatever.
And it was just such
a ridiculously long name. And
I, so on my blog,
I think it was like
three in the morning and
I was in a weird
mood or whatever. And I
was like, I reject this
name. I reject it. And
I will. I now declare
that the entity framework is
the magic unicorn edition. When
you guys woke up the
next morning where you like,
were you mad? Cause I
was just being silly, but
I didn't know. It would
become like a thing. I
think we thought it was
hilarious. And it's to the
point where we filled a
guy's office full of inflatable
unicorns when he went on
vacation once and we've got
little unicorn crossing signs in
our hallways now. And when
the  t-shirt comes out,
it's called the magic unicorn
edition. That's awesome. That's awesome.
I was making sure that
I was still cool with
you guys. Yeah, no, it
was, it was pretty good.
People really liked that and
it's actually a rallying point
in a way. Oh, that's
cool. That's cool. Back to
the thing about chipping out
of band, it seems like
there's more and more stuff
coming out. You thinking of
you guys, entity framework and
NPC, and also SQL compact
where we're not necessarily having
to install stuff like you
could, but with new get
in the package management, I
can go and get SQL
compact vision, ear 4.1, NVC
scaffolding and things like that.
And I'm bringing them down
on a, at a project
level where I, I use
the term Lego pieces. I've
I've been talking about this
for a couple of months.
Now, the idea that suddenly
the, the Legos are the
right size, you know, like
a Lego that I have
to run an MSI on
is not a good Lego.
You know what I mean?
Yeah. But yeah, we'd love
new. Was it a design
conscious decision to make things
so plugable like that certainly
like I, you know, we,
we, when we saw new,
get, it made us really
excited just because we build
this, we built this piece.
that sat very nicely
on top of via FORO
and we saw new get
is a really great way
of delivering it. Not only
it's like you walk into
a project it's really, really
simple just to drop your
Lego piece if you will,
into that project. So yeah.
I mean, we, when we
saw it, we, we were
super excited just cause we
thought it fit so well
with what we were doing.
The fact that NBC and
you guys both use T4
templates for co-generation stuff. And
I guess, is it true
that you guys support plugging
in your own T4 templates
to generate classes pretty much
any way you want? Yeah.
Is that a coincidence or
you can add, how did
you guys get into the
whole T4 thing? A key
force. This was one of
our, this was one of
the big criticisms of what
we did in our initial
release in three, five SD
one was that the code
that we generated, not only
couldn't, you couldn't write poco
classes, but you couldn't really
change what we were generating
for you from a code
gen perspective. So this is
one of our big ads
and yeah, four actually was,
Hey, you know, you can
you write your poker classes,
but you can also just
completely take over and do
whatever code genuine. We ship
a few cogeneration strategies in
the box. And then we
also use extension manager to
ship a few other psych
our, I think our polka
template is on extension manager
as well. And we've pretty
consistently seen people take our
templates and tweak them for
their domain, for whatever naming
convention, their hat they have.
Or in some cases I've
seen shops where they've got
a business object layer already.
So they have specific base
classes and the interfaces that
they're using and they'll change
our key four templates to
ax to use their stuff.
So they'll take ours and
alternate and we think it's
great. So just key for
in general, we're, we're super
excited about it. We think
it's great. And you know,
we, we, we see people
consistently using it to alter
our code gen and takeover,
which is awesome. Yeah. I'm
trying to get the T
for guys to realize that
this is a big deal
and that T4 needs to
have syntax highlighting. And you
know, I think people, some
people are a little bit
afraid to bet the farm
on, on T4 because when
you, I mean, it seems
like a small thing, but
when you, you know, when
you open the file up
to visual studio, it gives
you a sense of like,
should I be here? This
is I supposed to be
the world. And yeah, it's
just a little bit scary,
you know, I mean, maybe
that just kind of underlies
the whole kind of a
joke about how, if you
know, my.net programmers are useless
unless they've got, you know,
drag and drop support inside
of, inside of visual studio.
But every time I opened
a T for a template
and I don't get like
someone doesn't hold my hand,
I'm a little bit like,
Oh, yikes, Oh, am I
supposed to, you know, I've
opened the door and I
shouldn't have done that. There's
actually a pretty nice little
visual studio add in from
a company called tangible, the
tangible T4 editor, which gives
you the syntax highlighting. And
you can tell like, what's
code, that's going to be
output versus what's code. That's
running to help run the
template. That helps a lot.
It avoids the, a bottle
of Advil syndrome that you
get from working on templates.
Yeah. Yeah. We should, we
should buy them or something.
I don't know. I guess
this would be a good
example of the kind of
thing where we could solve
a problem by, you know,
going out there in the
community and, and, and bringing
something in. But yeah, we
should all, we should all
keep putting pressure on them
because it's all because we
love T4 cause we're picking
on the team. Yeah, definitely.
Yeah. So how do we,
how do we get enough?
We can go into new
get, and it's it's called
entity framework is the package.
You guys changed the name
a little bit. So I
just say install, package, entity
framework. Is there also an
MSI or something I should
install on my system? Yeah,
you can get an M
well, you don't have to,
like, you can use new
get, and you'll get what
you need. Like it builds
on top of the
you have net effects for
installed, then you can use
new get, and you've got
what you need. You just
go to town, you can
go get our MSI, if
you want to GAC it.
And that's off of the
MSDN download center. That'll also
give you our DB context
generation for model first and
database first workflows. Cool. So
I don't have to put
anything in the gag or
running MSI if I don't
want to, but if I
do, then I can go
and get the installer. That's
right. All right. Very cool.
And we just published. We're
actually, I think we're in
the process of publishing and
entity framework code first, a
tutorial on the asp.net website.
And I'll add a link
to that on the show.
And there's lots of different
code first tutorials that are
out there so people can
try each of the different
modeling styles, database, first model
first, or code first. And
I guess we're going to
be doing some demos of
this at mix too. So
people will be able to
get as much of this
as they, as they can
handle. Awesome. Yeah. Awesome. Thanks
guys. I really appreciate your
time. This has been another
episode of Hansel minutes. We'll
see you again next week.